*: update grafana-tidb-dashboard (#3067)
pingcap/docs: grafana-tidb-dashboard.md

# TiDB Monitoring Metrics

If you use TiDB Ansible or TiUP to deploy the TiDB cluster, the monitoring system (Prometheus & Grafana) is deployed at the same time. For the monitoring architecture, see [TiDB Monitoring Framework Overview](/tidb-monitoring-framework.md).

The Grafana dashboard is divided into a series of sub dashboards which include Overview, PD, TiDB, TiKV, Node\_exporter, Disk Performance, and so on. The TiDB dashboard consists of the TiDB panel and the TiDB Summary panel. The differences between the two panels are different in the following aspects:

- TiDB panel: provides as comprehensive information as possible for troubleshooting cluster anomalies.

> - TiDB Summary Panel: extracts parts of the TiDB panel information with which users are most concerned, with some modifications. It provides data (such as QPS, TPS, response delay) that users care about in the daily database operations, which serve as the monitoring information to be displayed or reported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TiDB Summary Panel: extracts parts of the TiDB panel information with which users are most concerned, with some modifications. It provides data (such as QPS, TPS, response delay) that users care about in the daily database operations, which serves as the monitoring information to be displayed or reported.
```

    - QPS By Instance: the QPS on each TiDB instance, which is classified according to the success or failure of command execution results
    - Failed Query OPM: the statistics of error types (such as syntax errors and primary key conflicts) according to the errors occurred when executing SQL statements per second on each TiDB instance. It contains the module in which the error occurs and the error code
    - Slow query: the statistics of the processing time of slow queries (the time cost of the entire slow query, the time cost of Coprocessor，and the waiting time for Coprocessor scheduling)
    - 999/99/95/80 Duration: the statistics of the execution time for different types of SQL statements (different percentiles)

- Query Detail
    - Duration 80/95/99/999 By Instance: the statistics of the execution time for SQL statements on each TiDB instance (different percentiles)
    - Failed Query OPM Detail: the statistics of error types (such as syntax errors and primary key conflicts) according to the errors occurred when executing SQL statements on each TiDB instance

>     - Internal SQL OPS: the internal SQL statements executed per second in the entire TiDB cluster. The internal SQL statements are automatically executed in. There are generally triggered by user SQL statements or internally scheduled tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Internal SQL OPS: the internal SQL statements executed per second in the entire TiDB cluster. The internal SQL statements are internally executed and are generally triggered by user SQL statements or internally scheduled tasks.
```

- Server
    - Uptime: the runtime of each TiDB instance

>     - Memory Usage: the memory usage statistics of each TiDB instance, which is are divided into the memory occupied by processes and the memory applied by Golang on the heap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Memory Usage: the memory usage statistics of each TiDB instance, which is divided into the memory occupied by processes and the memory applied by Golang on the heap
```

    - Time Jump Back OPS: the number of times that the operating system rewinds every second on each TiDB instance
    - Write Binlog Error：the number of times that the binlog write failure occurs every second on each TiDB instance
    - Handshake Error OPS: the number of times that a handshake error occurs every second on each TiDB instance
    - Get Token Duration: the time cost of getting Token on each connection

- Transaction
    - Transaction OPS: the number of transactions executed per second
    - Duration: the execution time of a transaction
    - Transaction Statement Num: the number of SQL statements in a transaction
    - Transaction Retry Num: the number of times that a transaction retries
    - Session Retry Error OPS: the number of errors encountered during the transaction retry per second
    - KV Transaction OPS: the number of transactions executed per second within each TiDB instance
        - A user transaction might trigger multiple transaction executions in TiDB, including reading internal metadata, atomic retries of the user transaction, and so on

>         - TiDB's internal scheduled tasks also operates on the database through transactions, which is also included in this panel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - TiDB's internally scheduled tasks also operate on the database through transactions, which are also included in this panel
```

    - KV Transaction Duration: the time spent on executing transactions within each TiDB

>     - Commit Token Wait Duration: the wait duration in the flow control queue during the transaction commit. If the wait duration is long, it means that the transaction to commit is too large and the flow is controlled. If the system still has resources available, you can speed up the committing by increasing the `committer-concurrency` value in the TiDB configuration file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Commit Token Wait Duration: the wait duration in the flow control queue during the transaction commit. If the wait duration is long, it means that the transaction to commit is too large and the flow is controlled. If the system still has resources available, you can speed up the commit process by increasing the `committer-concurrency` value in the TiDB configuration file
```

    - Transaction Max Write Size Bytes: the maximum key-value pair size written by a single transaction
    - Transaction Regions Num 90: 90% of the number of Regions written by a single transaction
    - Send HeartBeat Duration: the interval between transactions sending heartbeats
    - TTL Lifetime Reach Counter: the TTL of the transaction reached the upper limit. The default value of the upper limit of TTL is 10 minutes. It means that the first lock of a pessimistic transaction or the first prewrite of an optimistic transaction exceeds 10 minutes. The default value of the upper limit of TTL is 10 minutes. The upper limit of TTL life can be changed by modifying `max-txn-TTL` in the TiDB configuration file
    - Statement Lock Keys: the number of locks for a single statement
    - Acquire Pessimistic Locks Duration: the time consumed by locking
    - Pessimistic Statement Retry OPS: the number of retry attempts for pessimistic statements. When the statement tries to lock, it may encounter a write conflict error. At this time, the statement will reacquire a new snapshot and lock again

>     - Load Safepoint OPS: the number of times that `Safepoint` loads. The function of `Safepoint` is to ensure that the data before `Safepoint` is not read when the transaction reads data, so as to ensure the safety of the data. Because the data before `Safepoint` may be cleaned up by the GC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Load Safepoint OPS: the number of times that `Safepoint` is loaded. `Safepoint` is to ensure that the data before `Safepoint` is not read when the transaction reads data, thus ensuring data safety. The data before `Safepoint` might be cleaned up by the GC
```

    - Partial Num: the number of Partial results for each SQL statement

- KV Errors

>     - KV Backoff Duration: the time that a KV retry request lasts

Reviewer: `TiDB 向 TiKV 发送请求时可能遇到错误，TiDB 对每个向 TiKV 的请求都有重试机制，这里记录的是一个请求重试的总时间` is missing in your translation.

>     - KV Backoff Duration: the total time that a KV retry request lasts. TiDB may encounter an error when sending a request to TiKV. TiDB has a retry mechanism for every request to TiKV. The total time of a request retry is recorded here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - KV Backoff Duration: the total duration that a KV retry request lasts. TiDB might encounter an error when sending a request to TiKV. TiDB has a retry mechanism for every request to TiKV. This `KV Backoff Duration` item records the total time of a request retry.
```

    - TiClient Region Error OPS: the number of Region related error messages returned by TiKV
    - KV Backoff OPS: the number of error messages returned by TiKV

>     - Lock Resolve OPS: the number of TiDB cleanup lock operations. When TiDB's read-write request encounters a lock, it will try to clean up the lock

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Lock Resolve OPS: the number of TiDB operations to resolve locks. When TiDB's read or write request encounters a lock, it tries to resolve the lock
```

    - Other Errors OPS: the number of other types of errors, including clearing locks and updating `SafePoint`

- KV Duration
    - KV Request OPS: the execution times of a KV request, displayed according to TiKV
    - KV Request Duration 99 by store: the execution time of a KV request, displayed according to TiKV
    - KV Request Duration 99 by type: the execution time of a KV request, displayed according to the request type

- PD Client
    - PD Client CMD OPS: the statistics of commands executed by PD Client per second
    - PD Client CMD Duration: the time it takes PD Client to execute commands
    - PD Client CMD Fail OPS: the statistics of failed commands executed by PD Client per second
    - PD TSO OPS: the number of TSO that TiDB obtains from PD per second

>     - PD TSO Wait Duration: the time that TiDB waits to return to TSO from PD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - PD TSO Wait Duration: the time that TiDB waits for PD to return TSO
```

>     - PD TSO RPC duration: the time taken by TiDB from sending a request for TSO to PD to receive TSO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - PD TSO RPC duration: the duration from the time that TiDB sends request to PD (to get TSO) to the time that TiDB receives TSO
```

>     - Start TSO Wait Duration: the time from TiDB sending PD to get start TSO request to waiting for TSO to return

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Start TSO Wait Duration: the duration from the time that TiDB sends request to PD (to get `start tso`) to the time that TiDB receives `start tso`
```

- Schema Load
    - Load Schema Duration: the time it takes TiDB to obtain the schema from TiKV
    - Load Schema OPS: the statistics of the schemas that TiDB obtains from TiKV per second

>     - Schema Lease Error OPM: the Schema Lease errors include two types named `change` and `outdate`. `change` means that the schema has changed, and `outdate` means that the schema cannot be updated, which is a more serious error. It will alarm when an `outdate` error occurs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Schema Lease Error OPM: the Schema Lease errors include two types: `change` and `outdate`. `change` means that the schema has changed, and `outdate` means that the schema cannot be updated, which is a more serious error and triggers an alert.
```

    - Load Privilege OPS: the statistics of the number of privilege information obtained by TiDB from TiKV per second

- DDL
    - DDL Duration 95: 95% quantile of DDL statement processing time

>     - Batch Add Index Duration 100: statistics of the maximum time spent by each Batch when creating an index

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Batch Add Index Duration 100: statistics of the maximum time spent by each Batch on creating an index
```

    - DDL Waiting Jobs Count: the number of DDL tasks that are waiting
    - DDL META OPM: the number of times that a DDL obtains META every minute

>     - DDL Worker Duration 99: 99% of the execution time of each DDL worker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - DDL Worker Duration 99: 99% quantile of the execution time of each DDL worker
```

    - Deploy Syncer Duration: the time consumed by Schema Version Syncer initialization, restart, and clearing up operations
    - Owner Handle Syncer Duration: the time that it takes the DDL Owner to update, obtain, and check the Schema Version
    - Update Self Version Duration: the time consumed by updating the version information of Schema Version Syncer

>     - DDL OPM: the number of executions per second of DDL statements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - DDL OPM: the number of DDL executions per second
```

    - DDL Add Index Progress In Percentage: the progress of adding an index

- Statistics
    - Auto Analyze Duration 95: the time consumed by automatic `ANALYZE`
    - Auto Analyze QPS: the statistics of automatic `ANALYZE`
    - Stats Inaccuracy Rate: the information of the statistics inaccuracy rate
    - Pseudo Estimation OPS: the number of the SQL statements optimized using pseudo statistics
    - Dump Feedback OPS: the number of stored statistical feedbacks
    - Store Query Feedback QPS: the number of operations per second to store the feedback information of the union query, which is performed in TiDB memory
    - Significant Feedback: the number of significant feedback pieces that update the statistics information

>     - Update Stats OPS: the number of updating statistics with feedback

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Update Stats OPS: the number of operations of updating statistics with feedback
```

    - Fast Analyze Status 100: the status for quickly collecting statistical information

- Owner
    - New ETCD Session Duration 95: the time it takes to create a new etcd session. TiDB connects to etcd in PD through etcd client to save/read some metadata information. This records the time spent creating the session

>     - Owner Watcher OPS: the number of operations per second of DDL owner watches PD's etcd metadata

Reviewer: @jackysp The Chinese version `DDL owner watch PD 的 etcd 的元数据的 goroutine 的每秒操作次数` is very confusing. Please help check whether the translation here is correct, thanks!

>     - Owner Watcher OPS: the number of operations per second of DDL owner watches PD's etcd metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Owner Watcher OPS: the number of Goroutine operations per second of DDL owner watch PD's etcd metadata
```

- Meta
    - AutoID QPS: AutoID related statistics, including three operations (global ID allocation, a single table AutoID allocation, a single table AutoID Rebase)
    - AutoID Duration: the time consumed by AutoID related operations

>     - Region Cache Error OPS: the number of errors encountered per second by TiDB cached region information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Region Cache Error OPS: the number of errors encountered per second by the cached Region information in TiDB
```

    - Meta Operations Duration 99: the latency of Meta operations

- GC
    - Worker Action OPM: the number of GC related operations, including `run_job`, `resolve_lock`, and `delete\_range`
    - Duration 99: the time consumed by GC related operations
    - Config: the configuration of GC data life time and GC run interval
    - GC Failure OPM: the number of failed GC related operations

>     - Delete Range Failure OPM: the number of times the `Delete Range` failed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Delete Range Failure OPM: the number of times the `Delete Range` has failed
```

>     - Config: the configuration of GC data life time and GC run interval

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Config: the configuration of GC data life time and GC running interval
```

    - Too Many Locks Error OPM: the number of the error that GC clears up too many locks
    - Action Result OPM: the number of results of GC-related operations

>     - Delete Range Task Status: the task status of `Delete Range`, including completion and failure status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Delete Range Task Status: the task status of `Delete Range`, including completion and failure
```
